American Culture (Major)
The U-M Program in American Culture is among the most dynamic units on the campus. Its intellectual development focuses on a rethinking of interdisciplinarity. In the spirit of the most creative and responsible scholarship of the new millennium, the Program is moving its intellectual center beyond a coalition of disciplinary specialists laboring in a collaborative relationship and toward the production of scholars whose accomplishments express a genuine synthesis of methods. Moreover, a critical constituent of this process is the reformulation of a vision of American cultures without borders, in an international framework, and with the study of Asian Americans, Latina/os, Native Americans, Arab Americans, and African Americans pivotal to teaching and research. Our goal is to enrich the investigation of American culture by engaging in a refashioning of the more traditional areas of the field of American Studies, together with attentiveness to budding subjects of new study within disciplines across the social sciences and humanities.
The Program in American Culture exposes students to the interdisciplinary study of U.S. society and culture. Our courses integrate a rich array of materials, themes, and approaches from many fields: not only historical and literary study, but also visual studies, musicology, film and media, anthropology, and others. The curriculum of the Program emphasizes the multicultural diversity of American society, paying particular attention to ethnic, gender, and other forms of social difference and inequality. At the same time, it stresses the importance of studying U.S. nationhood, including Americans' (sometimes conflicting) ideals and experiences of what it means to be American. Our courses are designed to explore these issues in both historical and contemporary settings.
Although the major in American Culture offers considerable flexibility and intellectual diversity, it also is designed to foster a community of learning among undergraduates. The Program aims to be an interdisciplinary "village" within the larger College, in which majors share the opportunity for intensive study, conversation, and research about American society and culture.
Related Programs
American Culture Minor
Arab and Muslim American Studies Minor
Asian/Pacific Islander American Studies Minor
Ethnic Studies Sub-Major
Digital Studies Minor
Latina/Latino Studies Major
Latina/o Studies Minor
Native American Studies Minor
Community Action and Social Change Minor
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA American Culture
