Movement Science
Undergraduate Program
Through our undergraduate program, you'll actively learn about the field through close interaction with faculty, academic advisors, and alumni mentors, as well as internships and professional development activities.
Overview
The Movement Science (MVS) program prepares students for careers in different health-related disciplines, such as medicine, physical therapy, occupational therapy, physical rehabilitation, and biomedical research. The curriculum includes coursework, laboratory research opportunities, and hands-on learning experiences that focus on understanding the control, mechanics, and physiology of human movement. The MVS program emphasizes three disciplines:
Biomechanics
applies principles of mechanics to human movement. Biomechanics courses offer good preparation for graduate studies in biomechanics, ergonomics, prosthetics, physical therapy, or rehabilitation medicine.
Exercise Physiology
focuses on metabolic, hormonal, and cardiovascular responses to acute and chronic physical activity. The curriculum prepares students for careers in health-related fields, as well as for graduate studies in exercise physiology, physical therapy, occupational therapy, and biomedical research.
Motor Control
examines the ways movement is learned and controlled across the lifespan through neural and behavioral mechanisms that include cognitive factors. Motor control knowledge can be applied in physical and occupational therapy careers, as well as other health professions.
Non-Kines U-M students:
Considering a cross-campus transfer? Advisor Rebecca Krombeen (
krombeen@umich.edu
) can help you find the right program for your interests. You can also check out her slide presentation,
Guide to Cross Campus Transfer,
at
myumi.ch/qgPjW
.
Apply
Connect with Us
Mission
The Movement Science (MOVESCI) major strives to fully develop the intellectual abilities of each student during their learning experiences in the School of Kinesiology. The program emphasizes the study of human movement from biological and behavioral perspectives across the lifespan. The Movement Science program achieves their mission by offering a diversified program that includes introductory and advanced coursework, research, and laboratory experiences. Success is evaluated by the academic and professional placement of graduates.
Program Overview
The Movement Science major comprises coursework that emphasizes the causes and consequences of human movement from biomechanical, motor control and development, and physiological perspectives. The requirements include courses both in and outside of Kinesiology.
The Movement Science curriculum emphasizes competencies in these areas:
The three areas of Movement Science: Biomechanics, Motor Control, and Exercise Physiology;
Research;
Scientific communication, including oral, written, and graphic skills;
Computer literacy.
Students will gain these competencies by mastering concepts in courses, by exposure to research in laboratory sections of courses and in independent study and research courses.
View the sample curriculum from current and past years in the Forms and Bulletins section of this page, below.
MVS Honors Program
MVS honors students are expected to pursue a rigorous and diversified course of study. Students must complete the regular Movement Science curriculum as well as advanced coursework, independent study, and a thesis during the senior year. Students must maintain a 3.5 GPA throughout the program. For more information, visit our
MVS Honors page
or contact
Dr. Susan Brown
(
shcb@umich.edu
).
The School of Kinesiology sponsors or promotes over a dozen groups for students to pursue their personal and career interests.
They include the Pre-Physical & Occupational Therapy Club, the Black Undergraduate Kinesiology Association, the Michigan Sport Consulting Group, and Phi Epsilon Kappa (PEK), the co-ed Kinesiology fraternity. List and links to their Maize Pages or websites can be found on the
Student Organizations page
.
Movement Science Undergraduate Faculty
Our Movement Science undergraduate faculty are leaders in their fields, and have a variety of interests and specialties.
View the MVS undergraduate faculty list
.
Courses
Sample MOVESCI Course Offerings
Exercise Physiology
Human Musculoskeletal Anatomy
Motor Control
Exercise, Nutrition, and Weight Control
Biomechanics
Browse only MOVESCI courses in the Course Catalog
Browse entire Course Catalog
All Forms & Bulletins
Go to forms page
Includes academic, internship, and independent study forms for MOVESCI students.
Go to bulletins page
Includes bulletins, record sheets, and sample 4-year curriculum for MOVESCI students.
