Section Menu
How will you make a difference?
The Ford School offers small interdisciplinary policy seminars, individualized support, close relationships with faculty, a broad range of programs and activities, and a policy focus area of your choice.
Based in the social sciences, undergraduate programs give students the knowledge and skills needed to analyze policy problems, understand the stakes, and create viable solutions.
Working in small groups with world-class faculty, students bring diverse talents and perspectives to bear on real-world policy issues. They champion their interests with intelligence and passion. Then they share them with the world.
Download the BA brochure.
Kaltura Video
Bachelor of Arts in Public Policy (BA)
Careers in public policy
Careers of impact
Ten years after graduation, our BA alumni include Congressional chief of staff, researchers, entrepreneurs, teachers, attorneys, and city officials.
Find your inspiration
Students interested in our BA in public policy apply during their sophomore year and are admitted for their last two years of undergraduate study. The application deadline is February 1. Applicants will be notified about admissions decisions by mid-March.
Learn more about our BA degree program.
Applications for our public policy minor, launched in fall 2020, are open from April 1 – May 1. Applicants will be notified of their admissions decisions by the end of May.
Learn more about the BA Minor.
The Public Policy and International Affairs (PPIA) Junior Summer Institute applications are submitted through the national PPIA office.
Learn more about the PPIA Junior Summer Institute.
David Leapheart (BA '10)
Captain, U.S. Marine Corps, Legal Services and Support Section, National Capital Region.
He is a graduate of NYU Law School ('14) and was Editor in Chief of the NYU Law Review ('13-14). While at U-M he focused on international social justice, business and public policy and interned at Ford Motors Washington Affairs Group and the Wayne County Prosecutor's office.
My time at the Ford School was special because it connected me to hundreds of politically-engaged students. I particularly enjoyed seminars where my classmates and I could discuss and debate current events. This pushed me to question my own beliefs and understand differing points of view, a practice I find helpful in political work."
Lauren Mondry (BA '12)
Deputy press secretary for the office of Mayor Mike Duggan, City of Detroit. While at Michigan, she interned with the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, the Clinton Global Initiative, and the office of Senator Carl Levin.
Download the BA brochure
More information
For prospective students, email the admissions team at
fspp-admissions@umich.edu
.
Have any questions?
Logan Corey
Assistant Director, Recruiting and Admissions
2248 Weill Hall
735 S. State Street
Ann Arbor, MI, 48109
(734) 615-5389
iamlogan@umich.edu
Zach Marentay
Admissions & CRM Specialist
2248 Weill Hall
735 S. State Street
Ann Arbor, MI, 48109
734-764-6923
zahama@umich.edu
Contact
