Environment (Major)
The Program in the Environment is an undergraduate degree program housed in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts (LSA). This collaborative venture includes courses taught by faculty in Literature, Science, and the Arts, School for Environment and Sustainability, College of Engineering, Ford School of Public Policy, Stamps School of Art and Design, Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning and School of Public Health. The resulting curriculum presents an expanded range of opportunities for students interested in environmental careers.
The Program in the Environment trains students to ensure basic scientific literacy, familiarity with advanced problem-solving techniques, and an ability to integrate scientific and social scientific approaches in addressing environmental problems. The program’s interdisciplinary approach requires coursework in the natural sciences, social sciences and the humanities. It combines breadth, through exposing students to a variety of disciplines and methodological skills, and depth, through requiring a sequence of courses in one of three specialization areas: Environmental Sciences, Environmental Social Sciences, or Culture and Environment. Majors are required to spend time off campus in an organized field study or a supervised internship.
Students who complete the major in the Environment will earn either a B.S. or a B.A. degree, depending upon their course of study (the B.S. requires 60 credits of courses in science and mathematics). The degree is awarded collaboratively by LSA and SEAS and bears the names of both schools.
The major in Environment is intended to ensure scientific literacy, familiarity with advanced problem-solving techniques, and an ability to integrate scientific and social scientific approaches in addressing environmental problems. It serves students interested in environmental literacy as well as those interested in a wide range of career tracks related to environmental issues.
Related Programs
Environment Minor
Energy and Science Policy Minor
Food and the Environment Minor
Sustainability Minor
Water and the Environment Minor
Ecology and Evolution Biodiversity Major
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Minor
Global Environment & Health Sub-Major
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA Environment
