German (Major)
Germany has emerged as the strongest economy in Europe, and the State of Michigan has especially deep economic ties to Germany: Thus German is one of the most important languages for business and engineering. German is also centrally important for gaining a first-hand, fundamental knowledge of the aesthetic, philosophical, and scientific foundations of modern thought. By a wide margin, German is the most frequently required or recommended academic language.
At every level of our language program, we strive to appeal to the cognitive abilities and intellectual curiosity of our students. Our language courses focus systematically on the development of all four basic language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing), while emphasizing context and meaning at all levels and in all spheres of the language acquisition process. It is fundamental to our program that all language courses encourage students to explore other world-views and learn to think critically about culture.
The goals for the first two years of language study include increasing the level of proficiency in beginning and intermediate language students and meeting the needs and interests of the majority of students so that they will find the language requirement stimulating and useful. We believe that language learning is and should be enjoyable and stimulating, and we hope that our courses live up to this. Our special topics courses (GERMAN 232) are meant to provide an introduction to the discourse and substance of various disciplines in German and thus become stepping stones to coursework outside of the German major proper. These special topics include courses on German politics and economics, history, music, art, anthropology, film, engineering, and mathematical and scientific German. Upon completion of the fourth-term course, students are strongly encouraged to pursue an internship or study abroad in Germany. The German department and the Office of International Programs provide extensive assistance to students interested in doing this: students who go abroad each year come back excited about their experience and speak excellent German.
Intermediate and advanced courses are designed both to enhance language skills and to explore central issues in all areas of German Studies. These courses are open not just to majors and minors but also to all students who meet prerequisites regardless of major area.
Students who enter the University with a background in the German language are strongly urged to continue their study of the language without interruption during their first and second years.
The objectives of the major in German are:
to develop facility in the use of German;
to provide an integrated knowledge of major German writers in various disciplines; and
to gain insight into all aspects of German culture.
The major in German provides valuable background for work in all areas of today's global economy and in the traditional areas of application of language study, such as international relations, teaching, translating, and the tourism industry. Consequently, dual majors in German and another subject (History, Political Science, etc.) are strongly encouraged.
Related Programs
German Studies Minor
Scandinavian Studies Minor
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA Germanic Languages & Literatures
