Polish (Major)
The Polish Program at the University of Michigan is considered one of the strongest, possibly the strongest, Polish programs in the country. Language courses are the core, with offerings including First, Second, Third, and Fourth Year Polish. U-M is thus the only American university to offer four levels of Polish every year. It also offers on a regular basis Polish literature survey courses, as well as courses on Polish drama, novel , film, and popular culture. People of Polish heritage form the fourth largest ethnic group in the state of Michigan, and a great number of students at the University of Michigan have Polish roots. The strength of the program has been possible thanks to intensive cooperation with the Center of Russian and East European Studies. The Center actively supports Polish activities across the campus and helps coordinate a large network of faculty that include in their teaching and research different aspects of Polish culture. The Polish program also benefits from the activities of the Copernicus Endowment, most notably its annual Copernicus Lectures delivering leading Polish scholars, artists, writers, and public figures.
The concentration is intended for undergraduates who have in interest in Polish language and culture for academic, cultural, or frequently heritage reasons. It will appeal to students who are contemplating professional, scholarly, or business careers that will involve work in Poland. Its goal is to give interested students a solid base in Polish language and culture, knowledge they can apply in a future academic and/or professional career. It aims to enable research and day-to-day communication, at the same time that it provides competence in salient aspects of Polish literature and culture.
In addition to the major, the department offers an academic minor in Polish Language, Literature, and Culture.
Related Programs
Polish Language and Literature Minor
Bosnian/Croatian/Serbian Literature and Culture Minor
Czech Language, Literature, and Culture Minor
East European Studies Minor
Russian Major
Russian Language, Literature, and Culture Minor
Russian Studies Minor
Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies Major
Ukranian Language, Literature, and Culture Minor
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA Slavic Languages & Literatures
