Drama (Major)
The RC Drama Program offers students the opportunity to focus on creative expression and artistic exploration, developing skills in acting, playwriting, collaborative creation or “devising,” dramaturgy, and directing. Combining the strengths and faculty resources of the Residential College and the department of Theatre and Drama at UM’s School of Music,Theatre, and Dance (SMTD), the RC Drama Program provides a liberal arts course of study with a commitment to socially engaged theatre.
Our dynamic curriculum encompasses a wide spectrum: from classical theater to contemporary performance, from character analysis to stagecraft, from script interpretation to hands-on engagement with arts in local communities. Students begin with a foundational course and then progress through a series of advanced courses in a customizable framework which enables them to select courses that align with personal and artistic goals.
The program offers courses that cover a range of performing and applied art forms; students interested in playwriting, musical theatre, improvisational comedy, and other forms of creative expression will find opportunities that stimulate their artistic and academic interests.
Drama students have opportunities to engage in experiences beyond the classroom, bridging theory and practice. Our curriculum partners with programs such as the Prison Creative Arts Project (PCAP), a program which brings those impacted by the justice system together with the UM community for artistic collaboration and Telling It, a trauma-informed, expressive arts program that supports the healing needs of school-age youth. Many of our students also participate in Shakespeare in the Arb (SiTA), an outdoor summer production that takes place annually in Nichols Arboretum.
Students learn to navigate complexities, consider diverse perspectives, collaborate with off-campus communities, and communicate effectively – skills that extend beyond the stage into all facets of life. A degree in drama offers a versatile and comprehensive foundation that prepares students for an array of careers in theater and performance, arts administration, design, education, and public policy.
Other Residential College
Programs
Arts & Ideas in the Humanities Major
Creative Writing and Literature Major
Crime and Justice Minor
Drama Text-to-Performance Minor
Social Theory & Practice Major
Urban Studies Minor
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA Residential College
