We face unprecedented, complex public challenges—inequality, 
climate change, access to educati  on, refugee crises, and so much 
more. Our world needs the eﬀ  orts of an energeti  c, committ  ed, 
creati  ve generati  on—prepared to lead. Our world needs you. 
Bachelor of Arts
in Public Policy
Major in making a diﬀ  erence
T
he Ford School Bachelor of Arts in Public Policy 
is a liberal arts degree based in the social sciences. 
We give students the knowledge and skills needed 
to think critically, analyze policy problems, understand 
the stakes, and design innovative solutions.
At the Ford School, you’ll work in small groups with world-class faculty and 
with students who bring diverse backgrounds, talents, and perspectives to 
their studies.
The core curriculum includes courses in economics, political institutions, and 
policy evaluation.  You will also take an applied policy seminar with your entire 
cohort of fellow Fordies, exploring how values, experiences, and identities 
shape policy opinions.
You will design your own focus area and gain a deeper understanding  
of a policy topic that sparks your interest; examples have included energy 
policy, health care policy & infectious disease control, historical perspectives 
on foreign policy, development policy in Southeast Asia, and many more.
You will choose from among small, interdisciplinary policy seminars  
that emphasize teamwork, writing, analysis, and class participation.  
Recent examples include:
•	 Crime & Public Policy 
•	 Global Financial Markets, Crises,  
and Policies 
•	 World Economic History
•	 Immigration Policy 
•	 Dangerous Peacemaking
•	 Energy and Climate
•	 Counterterrorism Policy and Strategy
•	 Social Welfare Policy
Our curriculum Careers of impact
Careers of impact
O
ur supportive community prepares our  
undergraduate students to act, serve,  
and lead in the public, private, and not-for-profit 
sectors. You’ll receive:
•	 Career strategy and connections from our  
Career Services team
•	 Peer and professional advising 
•	 Individualized writing instruction from our  
best-in-class Writing Center
•	 Access to visiting speakers and policymakers
•	 Programming and coursework from our  
Leadership Initiative
•	 Connections with a community of Ford  
School alumni who remain closely connected 
with the school
S
ome graduates first pursue graduate studies 
in public policy, public health, law, education, 
information, business, and more. Others head 
to D.C., Detroit, Chicago, or points beyond to start 
making a difference. 
A Ford School BA has prepared our graduates for:
•	 D.C. legislative, communications, and  
advocacy jobs
•	 Research and program roles with think-tanks 
and
	nonprofit	organizations
•	 Consulting jobs in both the public and 
 
private sector
•	 Activism and community-based leadership
•	 Legal roles with the U.S. Department of Justice, 
law
	firms,	and	advocacy	organizations
     . . . and much more.
HOW AND WHEN TO APPLY
Application deadline: February 1 of sophomore year 
at U-M 
Prerequisites: Economics 101 and 102, one course from 
Race and Ethnicity (RE), and another introductory social 
science course
Apply online at: fordschool.umich.edu/ba/admissions. 
Ford School scholarship assistance is available. We also 
off  er fi  nancial assistance for unpaid internships. 
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy 
Joan and Sanford Weill Hall 
735 South State Street 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-3091 
734-764-3490
fordschool.umich.edu/admissions/ba 
Regents of the University of Michigan
Jordan B. Acker, Huntington Woods
Michael J. Behm, Grand Blanc
Mark J. Bernstein, Ann Arbor
Paul W. Brown, Ann Arbor
Sarah Hubbard, Okemos
Denise Ilitch, Birmingham
Carl J. Meyers, Dearborn
Katherine E. White, Ann Arbor
Domenico Grasso (ex oﬃcio)
© 2026 The Regents of the University of Michigan
A Non-discriminatory employer
OUR MISSION
The Ford School at the University of Michigan is a 
community dedicated to the public good. We inspire 
and prepare diverse leaders grounded in service, 
conduct transformational research, and collaborate 
on evidence-based policymaking to take on our com-
munities’ and our world’s most pressing challenges.
Average undergraduate course size:  25
Bachelor of Arts in Public Policy
