Chemistry (Major)
Chemistry is often referred to as the “central science” because atoms and molecules are the foundation of all phenomena – from climate change to COVID vaccines to cosmic events. Chemists are working in diverse fields, helping achieve environmental justice, health equity, and address climate change. Chemists in our department are synthesizing advanced materials for renewable energy storage, developing new methods to access medicines, and documenting changes in the Arctic atmosphere, among many other impactful projects. Chemists use sophisticated instrumentation to analyze and understand the living world as well as how complex chemical processes proceed.
The Chemistry major offers a flexible degree that will prepare you for diverse careers, including: entry to top graduate programs, the chemical industry, and health-related careers. Undergraduate research is a strongly encouraged option, particularly for students who plan to pursue graduate studies in chemistry or a related field, but is not a requirement for this major.
The Department of Chemistry offers programs leading to :
Academic Minors in Biochemistry, Chemistry, Chemical Physics, Polymer Chemistry, and Chemical Measurement Science
a Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Chemistry;
a Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Interdisciplinary Chemical Sciences;
a Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Biomolecular Science;
The department participates in and administers an interdepartmental major Biochemistry.
It is possible to incorporate a teaching certificate into any of these program options.
BS Major in Biochemistry
: The B.S. Major in Biochemistry is ideal for students who are interested in learning about life from a chemical perspective. Students will gain a solid foundation in chemistry through traditional sub-discipline courses, but will also take a number of chemistry courses that are focused on the role of chemistry in biological systems. Students will also have the option to take elective courses in molecular biology, and also may pursue undergraduate research in lieu of, or in addition to, one of the traditional laboratory courses. Students that pursue this major will be well equipped for graduate studies in biochemistry, chemical biology, and many other fields of inquiry in the life sciences. The major will also provide excellent preparation for students intending to pursue professional careers in the Biotechnology Industry as well as the Health Sciences
BS Major in Biomolecular Science
: The B.S. Major in Biomolecular Science provides students with the core knowledge necessary to understand the chemical principles underpinning biology and the option to explore other courses in chemistry, biophysics, and molecular, cellular and developmental biology. This major provides exposure to all of the core topics in the area of biochemistry, but also provides more flexibility in course selection than the B.S. Major in biochemistry. This major provides a good foundation for students planning to attend graduate school in an interdisciplinary field related to chemistry and biology, and also provides good preparation for those who intend to pursue graduate studies in biochemistry. This major also provides a solid foundation for students who plan to pursue degrees in the health sciences by providing opportunities for broad exposure to chemistry, biochemistry, biophysics, molecular biology, and related fields.
BS Major in Interdisciplinary Chemical Sciences
: The Interdisciplinary Chemical Sciences (ICS) major allows students the flexibility to supplement a core study of chemistry with courses in complementary fields. This major can be effective preparation for graduate study in the sciences, graduate studies in an interdisciplinary area that might benefit from a strong science background, for medical, law, and business schools, or for direct entry into the job market. Because students pursuing the ICS major have a wide variety of career goals, advising from a chemistry departmental advisor is especially important.
It is strongly recommended that students who are thinking of majors in chemistry should arrange an appointment  with a Chemistry advisory via the online advising system as soon as possible, preferably before the end of their first year but certainly before the end of their sophomore year. The online appointment scheduling system can be found here:
http://www.umich.edu/~michchem/undergrad/index.html
.
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA Chemistry
