Interdisciplinary Physics (A.B. or B.S.) (Major)
The University of Michigan has one of the country's premier programs for the training of undergraduate and graduate students in physics. The Department of Physics has abundant facilities for instruction in physics and offers a wide variety of experimental and theoretical research programs open to undergraduate and graduate students.
Undergraduates interested in physics have several program choices:
Physics (B.S.)
Interdisciplinary Physics (A.B. or B.S.)
Honors Physics Program
Physics Minor
A total of 60 credits in mathematics and the natural sciences must be elected to receive the Bachelor of Science degree.
Interested undergraduates may also want to look into work in medical physics (a promising path for pre-med students) in the
Applied Physics program
, or in the
Engineering Physics program
.
The analytical and quantitative thinking skills you will develop as you work toward any of these degrees will be of great value in many different careers. Most physics majors at U-M follow one (or more) of three paths after graduation:
graduate work in physics or another field;
employment in industry, software development, or associated field;
professional school in medicine, business, law, or associated area.
The goal of physics is to understand the behavior of matter and energy on every level, from the origins of the universe in the Big Bang to the interior of atoms in your computer screen. In seeking a pure understanding of how the world works, physicists have revolutionized our lives.
Completing an undergraduate degree in physics will give you a rich understanding of how the world works. It will also prepare you either for continued study in graduate or professional school, or for careers in industry, education, medicine, and finance.
Modern science is increasingly interdisciplinary. The Interdisciplinary Physics major allows students the flexibility to supplement their core study of physics with courses in complementary fields. This major can be effective preparation for graduate study in the sciences, for medical, law, and business schools, or for direct entry into the job market.
Because students pursuing the Interdisciplinary Physics major have a wide variety of career goals, advising from a Physics department advisor is especially important.
It is intended that the flexibility allowed by this program should be used in a well thought out and effective way.
Related Programs
Biophysics Major
Biophysics Minor
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA Physics
