Arab and Muslim American Studies (Minor)
Today, an estimated 3.5 million Arab Americans and an overlapping 8 million Muslim Americans live in the United States. Michigan is a major center for these massive and growing populations. The Detroit metropolitan region has the largest concentration of Arab Americans in the nation (almost half a million). Moreover, the Arab region and its diasporas have become increasingly central to U.S. history, diplomacy, and politics. Immigration and displacement by war and the forces of global economy are among the factors that have sparked movements of Arab people to the United States. Since September 11, 2001, there has been increased national attention to Arab and Muslims Americans and a scholarly renaissance in the field.
Courses in Arab American Studies provide an interdisciplinary study of Arab American histories, literatures, and cultures. We address the historical and current experiences of Arab Americans in the United States and the relevance of those experiences for understanding race and ethnicity in the U.S. and globally. Courses explore themes such as immigration history; racism and discrimination; gender and sexuality; media representations; the local and global impacts of war and violence on Arabs and Arab Americans; intellectual, artistic, and cultural contributions; and relationships with other racial and ethnic groups. This curriculum provides knowledge vital for a critical understanding of the contemporary United States in a global context. The Program in American Cultures offers the following courses in Arab American Studies: "Why do they Hate Us?: Perspectives on 9/11", Arab American Literature", Introduction to Arab American Studies, Muslim Americans, Arab Women: Homelands and Diasporas, Immigrant and Racial Politics after September 11th, Representing the Middle East in Hollywood Cinema. Courses may also be offered in other departments or cross listed in American Culture. Faculty members teaching in this area include Nadine Naber and Evelyn Alsultany.
This minor is intended for students interested in Arab and/or Muslim diasporas and who wish to develop a coherent understanding of the cultural politics of being Arab and/or Muslim in the U.S. and the contributions of Arabs/Muslims in American culture. Students will draw on the Arab and Muslim American Studies minor to supplement and make more coherent their understanding of the knowledge formed in a traditional discipline. For instance, students with interests in Arab and/or Muslim American identities, experiences, culture, or politics, who are majoring in a traditional humanities or social science discipline can enhance and deepen their thinking about Arabs and/Muslim communities by taking a systematic supplement of courses designed around those populations. Students majoring in Near Eastern Studies, International Studies, Public Policy, Anthropology, Sociology, History, English, Intergroup Relations, Political Science, and Women’s and Gender Studies would take particular interest in this minor, as well as those majoring in American Culture.
The minor in Arab and Muslim American Studies offers students:
An interdisciplinary approach to Arab and Muslim American studies that integrates research and teaching methods from various fields, such as history, media studies, religious studies, literature, anthropology, and sociology, among others
A transnational approach that highlights the relationship between Arab and Muslim homelands and diasporas
Comparative approaches that place the understanding of Arab and Muslim American history and experiences in relation to other racial, ethnic, religious, or immigrant groups
Community-based approaches that link universities with Arab and Muslim American communities through internships and collaborative projects
Minors in American Culture
American Culture offers a general minor in addition to minors from our Latina/o Studies, Native American Studies, and Asian/Pacific Islander American Studies units. The American Culture minor gives skills, information, and techniques from a wide variety of perspectives and disciplines. Students engage comparative ethnic studies, history, literature, film/media studies, religion, music, art, digital technologies, women's studies, folklore, sexuality studies, and ethnography. Our curriculum allows students a better understanding of the nation's diversity and the U.S.'s role in a global context. We explore what it has meant — and continues to mean — to claim to be an "American." The department also offers a minor in Digital Studies.
Related Programs
American Culture Major
American Culture Minor
Asian/Pacific Islander American Studies Minor
Digital Studies Minor
Ethnic Studies Submajor
Latina/Latino Studies Major
Latina/o Studies Minor
Native American Studies Minor
Community Action and Social Change Minor
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA American Culture
