Biopsychology, Cognition, and Neuroscience (BCN) (Major)
Curriculum
The curriculum in psychology is intended to enhance one's understanding of behavioral science and of oneself and others in terms of concepts developed by study. The undergraduate major program is not intended to prepare students for any specific vocational objective; to become a professional psychologist requires from two to four years (or more) of graduate study.
Curriculum Guides.
Curriculum Guides are available for both Psychology and Biopsychology, Cognition, and Neuroscience majors. Clusters are groupings of courses (both within the Department of Psychology and throughout other programs at the University of Michigan) that focus on a more specific area related to psychology. Students are encouraged to refer to these clusters when making academic and career goals.
The following clusters are currently available:
Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience
Business, Systems, and Organizations
Culture, Context, and Communities
Development, Psychopathology, and Mental Health
Evolution, Biology, and Behavior
Gender, Psychology, and Society
Health, Development, and Aging
Intergroup Relations
Language, Thought, and Culture
Law, Criminal Justice, and Forensics
Goals of the Major in BCN
The overall goal of Biopsychology, Cognition, and Neuroscience major is to provide a course of study that integrates the natural science components of the study of behavior and prepares students for graduate study in a number of related fields. The program integrates neuroscience, cognitive science, and evolutionary approaches to the study of behavior. This major is particularly appropriate for students interested in graduate study of human cognition, biopsychology, behavioral neuroscience, comparative animal behavior, and evolutionary psychology. A variety of research course options are available to provide the research training needed for post-graduate study. A variety of other career opportunities are also available when additional appropriate courses are chosen from other departments.
Related Programs
Cognitive Science Major
Neuroscience Major
Psychology Major
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA Psychology
