Academics
Home
>
Academics
>
Undergraduate
>
Majors
>
Computer Science Major (Eng students)
Computer Science Major (Engineering students)
Computer scientists are experts in computation, both in terms of the theory of computation and its innumerable practical applications. A computer scientist understands how to design and analyze algorithms, how to store and retrieve information, how computers function, and how to develop software systems that solve complex problems. Specialists within computer science might have expertise in developing software applications, designing computer hardware, analyzing algorithms, and many other current and emerging specializations.
Atlas profile for Computer Science (Eng)
(current U-M students only)
Open to students enrolled in the College of Engineering, this program is administered by the CSE Division of the EECS Department. CSE also administers a CS undergraduate major for students in the College of LSA.
What’s the difference between CS-LSA and CS-Eng?
Why computer science at Michigan?
The computer science major for engineering students will prepare you for a world of incredible opportunities. Our world-class faculty will challenge you to deepen your intellectual curiosity, and our curriculum will allow you to tailor your computing studies to your specific areas of interest. Along the way, you will develop both algorithmic fundamentals and a framework for understanding that will enable you to keep pace with the ever-changing world of computer science.
#5 ranking
CSE at Michigan has a #5 ranking at csrankings.org. Our CS undergraduate program is ranked #10 by US News and World Report.
5 Turing Awardees
Five U-M alumni have received the AM Turing Award, considered the “Nobel Prize” of computing.
100 faculty
100 award-winning faculty members in CSE, backed up by a professional course support staff team, make an active and robust program feel personal and supportive.
Curriculum
The computer science program requires students to have a solid foundation in computer software, hardware, and theory, but also gives each student ample opportunity to take advanced electives in areas of computer science such as databases, architecture, networks, artificial intelligence, and graphics, or in emerging interdisciplinary areas such as electronic commerce, web information systems, and computer game design.
Required courses
CS-Eng Program Guide
: CS-Eng Program GuideFall 2025-Winter 2026
CS-Eng Program Guide
: Fall 2024-Winter 2025
CS-Eng Program Guide
: Fall 2023-Winter 2024
Historical CS-Eng Program Guide
CSE course descriptions >
Contact an advisor
The
CSE Undergraduate Advising Office
can help via advising appointments, drop-in advising, email support, and more.
For additional support, students can also access the
CSE Advising Chatbot
for information on courses, programs, and policies.
Declaring in CS-Eng
Please watch this video
before proceeding further.
Declaration requirements are listed in the CS-Eng program guide. If you meet ALL of these requirements and are ready to declare, please fill out our
declaration request form
. A staff member will check your eligibility and let you know the outcome. For more detailed questions about the major, students can schedule an
advising
appointment or come to virtual drop-in advising.
Tracks of Study in CS
While pursuing a major in CS, you have the option to focus the direction of your study by selecting a track, which is a pre-defined grouping of Upper-Level Computer Science (ULCS and eULCS) courses that help you to gain expertise in a specific area of interest. Tracks are available in artificial intelligence, security, game development, data and information, and more.
Learn more about tracks here.
CS-Eng Senior Thesis
The Senior Thesis option is open to students completing the Computer Science Engineering program and can satisfy the Capstone Experience requirement. There is a minimum GPA requirement and students are responsible for finding a faculty mentor whose research area aligns with their interest(s) and who is willing to oversee the thesis project. See the
CS Thesis handout
for more detailed information.
Accelerated master’s: Sequential Undergraduate/Graduate Study (SUGS)
Students who enroll in this program and plan to obtain a master’s degree could be eligible for the Sequential Undergraduate/Graduate Study (SUGS) program, which enables completion of both a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in five (to five and a half) years.
More information is here.
Students interested in the program should contact the
CSE Graduate Programs Office
.
What our graduates do
Job titles
AI Engineer
Application Developer
Business Analyst
Data Engineer
Embedded Software Engineer
Full Stack Developer
Implementation Analyst
Investment Banking Analyst
Quantitative Trader
Software Engineer
Solutions Architect
Technology Consultant
Engineering Career Resource Center data
Computer Science career info sheet (pdf)
Post-graduation and co-op data
Meet our alumni
Justin Washington
BSE CS 2010
Principal Product Manager, Apple TV
Read more: From U-M student to Product Manager for Apple TV
Jill Bender
BSE CS 2014
Software Engineer, Siemens Digital Industries Software
Read more: A focus on societal good and EV charging infrastructure
Akanksha Singh
BSE CS 2018
CEO and Cofounder, Backdrop
Read more: A startup for the entertainment industry and a Forbes 30 under 30 recognition
Find more alumni stories
