Intellectual Breadth Breakdown
Intellectual Breadth is a 16-credit*
requirement for Engineering majors, which 
can include U-M or transfer credit in:
Liberal Arts Courses are a broad range of courses defined as either: 
Any course marked HU or SS 
in the LSA Course guide OR
Any course from a subject 
in this CoE bulletin table
EXCEPT when a course is also marked BS, NS, QR/1, or QR/2 in the LSA Course 
Guide. These codes disqualify from counting as Intellectual Breadth. ECON 101 and 102 
are the only exceptions to this rule and can count as Intellectual Breadth.
Humanities courses are marked HU in 
the LSA Course Guide. Use this search 
in the LSA Course Guide:
Professional and Creative Development Courses support the development of
creative and professional skills and include courses from this subject list on the 
CoE bulletin, unless marked BS or NS in the LSA Course Guide or otherwise noted. 
2 specific requirements must be completed 
within the 16 credits of Intellectual Breadth:
3 or more credits marked 
HU in the LSA Course Guide
3 or more HU or LAC credits 
at 300-lvl or higher
A 3 credit, 300-lvl+ 
HU course can 
satisfy both at once 
(i.e. CLCIV 371, 
GERMAN 386)
+
Add the following to the 
LSA Course Guide HU search 
mentioned above...
...to identify all 3 (or more) 
credit 300-lvl+ HU options!
The following may be approved by the 
departmental advising office for your major:
• Courses marked EXPERIENTAL or INDEPENDENT
• Departmental credit (SOC 101X, 201X, etc.)
• Test credit (AP or International Baccalauerate)
Confirm approval process with your major advisor!
Resources to support search:
• CoE Bulletin
• CoE Study Abroad Search
• Dr. M’s Course Database
• LSA Course Guide
• Transfer Credit Search
And for final confirmation:
• Your major advisor!
• Liberal Arts Courses (LAC)
• Humanities (HU)
• Up to 4 credits Professional 
and Creative Development 
Courses (PCDC)
*MUST include 3 Humanities credits and 
3 cr at 300-lvl or higher in HU or LAC!
Fun fact: transfer credit is approved as long as it meets HU, LAC, or PCDC criteria above!
