Academics
Home
>
Academics
>
Undergraduate Programs
>
Majors and Minors
>
Electrical Engineering Major
Electrical Engineering Major
Electrical engineering is all about information and energy. Electrical engineers control things, sense things, power things, design and build electronic devices, process signals, design computers, connect things and people – and lots more.
The impact of electrical engineering on our daily lives can be seen and felt most everywhere. Next-generation electronic devices, robotics, environmental and medical sensors, power systems, energy conversion systems, communication systems, satellite systems, remote sensing, nanotechnology, medical devices, information technology, big data, lighting, displays, miniature and low-power computers, automotive electronics, imaging, and even cyber security are all the work of electrical engineers.
Atlas profile for Electrical Engineering
(current U-M students only)
This program is administered by the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Division of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
Why electrical engineering at Michigan?
Jobs
: In recent years, most of the recruiters coming to Michigan are looking for electrical engineers, and are willing to pay them among the highest salaries.
Impactful Research
: Building on $50M of research, Michigan electrical engineering faculty and students are leaders in transferring technology from the lab to real-world products impacting sustainability, communication and information systems, security, computers, and more.
Creativity
: The Michigan Electrical Engineering program offers the widest variety of lab courses and senior major design experience courses to set your creativity free.
Top Ranked
EE is a top 10 ranked department (
US News & World Repor
t)
80+
Industry-relevant courses, with four years of hands-on, team-based design courses
100+
World-class faculty who win awards for teaching and research, start companies, and inspire students.
Curriculum
Program information
EE Major Program Guide
Editable Sample Schedule
Enrollment & Graduation Data
ECE Courses
Advising | Careers | Research
Advising Office
Sign up for an EE Group Declaration session
Career Info
Explore the types of research electrical engineers do
Academic concentrations
The
Electrical Engineering Program Guide
describes 11 different paths of study that students may use as a guide to planning their courses. These are optional. The program guide provides an overview and a list of related courses for each of these paths of study:
Applied Electromagnetics and RF Circuits
Controls/Systems
Embedded Systems
MEMS and Microsystems
Network Communication and Information Systems (NCIS)
Optics and Photonics
Power/Energy
Robotics
Signal and Image Processing
Solid-State Devices and Nanotechnology
VLSI Systems (Chip Design)
Every Electrical Engineering student takes a Major Design Experience (MDE) course, typically in their last year of undergraduate studies. These are the MDE courses offered for Electrical Engineering students:
EECS 411: Microwave Circuits I
Design, build, and test a commercially-available standard
receiver, such as WiFi, BlueTooth, or GSM.
EECS 411 Course overview
EECS 413: Monolithic Amplifier Circuits
Design advanced analog circuits, such as a high-performance op amp, or circuits for sensing and biomedical applications.
EECS 413 Course overview
EECS 425: Integrated Microsystems Lab
Design and fabricate a multi-chip microsystem containing sensors, signal processing, and more in the Lurie Nanofabrication Facility. These microsystems are used in today’s mobile and miniature devices.
EECS 425 Course overview
EECS 427: VLSI Design I
Design and build circuits into an entire digital system, such as a microprocessor that will go into a car, smartphone, wearable tech, or a media player.
EECS 427 Course overview
EECS 430: Wireless Link Design
Design, build, and characterize an antenna, a satellite ground station, the electronics for a NASA space satellite, or other practical radio link.
EECS 430  Course overview
EECS 438: Advanced Lasers and Optics Lab
Design and set up a practical optical system, such as a solar light concentrator for solar cells, a laser for a space elevator, or a tunable fiber laser.
EECS 438 Course overview
EECS 452: Digital Signal Processing Lab
Design and implement a real-time software package or hardware device. Examples include a low-cost hearing aid, a guitar autotuner, and a wireless electrocardiogram with biosensors.
EECS 452 Course overview
EECS 470: Computer Architecture
Design and build a dynamically scheduled processor while exploring modern computer architecture.
EECS 470 Course overview
EECS 473: Advanced Embedded Systems
Design a complete embedded system.
EECS 473 Course overview
Accelerated master’s degrees: SUGS and 3.4 Programs
ECE offers
two special programs for current University of Michigan undergraduate students to facilitate getting a master’s degree
. The
Sequential Undergraduate/Graduate (SUGS) program
allows current University of Michigan undergraduates to complete a bachelor’s and master’s degree in a total of five years, and the
3.4 program
allows current University of Michigan undergraduate students with at least a 3.4 GPA can apply for admission to the master’s program without taking the GRE or sending in letters of recommendation.
Outside the classroom
Learn by doing
Student Groups and Teams
Michigan Engineering Immersed
Professional Organizations
ECE Groups and Clubs
Research
UG research opportunities
Research Areas
What our graduates do
Job titles
Digital Design Engineer
Digital Signal Processing Engineer
Electrical Engineer
Signal Processing Engineer
Network Systems Engineer
Solar Engineer
Power Engineer
Lighting Engineer
Communications Engineer
Semiconductor Engineer
Robotics Engineer
Automotive Engineer
Controls Systems Engineer
Programmer Analyst
Bioelectrical Engineer
Mixed Signal Wireless Engineer
Product Engineer
Analog Product Engineer
Reliability Engineer
Audio & Video Engineer
+10,000 more
Salary information
Meet our alumni
Linda Guillory
World-record holder for vintage video game collections, and Texas Instruments Assembly Sourcing Manager
Curtis Ling
Making a successful technology company
Read more stories about our alumni
Read more stories about our future alumni
Mission and goals
The Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.) program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET,
https://www.abet.org
, under the General Criteria and the Program Criteria for Electrical, Computer, Communications, Telecommunication(s) and similarly named engineering programs.
View details
Mission
: To provide an outstanding education for engineers in electrical engineering and to develop future innovative leaders.
Goals
: To provide students with the education for a rewarding and productive career.
Objectives
: Within 5 years after graduating:
Graduates should be prepared for entry-level engineering jobs, for graduate school, or for entrepreneurial or volunteer activities based on their rigorous education in the fundamentals and applications of electrical engineering, including laboratory and design work.
Graduates should be able to pursue a variety of careers, based on a curriculum that allows for a balance between a deep education in one area and a broad education in several areas.
Graduates should be able to work effectively on diverse teams, to communicate in written and oral form, to practice life-long learning, and to develop the professional skills and ethics needed for successful leadership positions.
Outcomes
: The outcome that we desire is that our graduates demonstrate:
An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts
An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies
