International Studies (Major)
The Program in International and Comparative Studies (PICS)
seeks to be a focal point for the interdisciplinary study of issues that transcend borders. We encourage students and faculty to broaden their horizons while they deepen their knowledge of particular cultures and political, economic, and social contexts. We administer one of the fastest growing and largest undergraduate programs on campus in the form of both a
major
and minor as well as
fellowship support
for students.
Knowledge and insight pertaining to global affairs and different societies and cultures are more important than ever in today's interconnected world. A well-developed international perspective contributes to personal intellectual growth, is an increasingly important component of America's civic culture, and is required for success in an expanding number of professions.
Sub-plans
International Security, Norms & Cooperation
Political Economy & Development
Comparative Culture & Identity
Global Environment & Health
The major in International Studies offers students the opportunity to take a set of courses across departments to bring multiple methods and concepts together to address global problems. The major is rigorous and offers a balanced approach between disciplinary structure and depth and cross-disciplinary flexibility and breadth.
Students create a curriculum from across the college and university aimed at developing a broad understanding of the causes and effects of global challenges and potential redress. The International Studies major aims to develop students’ skills in moving among different units of analysis and different approaches and methods to understand, analyze, and ultimately help solve contemporary global issues and challenges. International Studies students will be exposed to topics such as global health trends, human rights and refugees, cultural homogenization and hybridization, environmental and energy crises, terrorism, transnational social movements, immigration, and the spread of technology. The major will draw on methods developed in specific disciplines such as economics, sociology, psychology, comparative literature, political science, anthropology, and history, and some methods emerging from cross-disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields.
Related Program
International Studies Minor
REQUIREMENTS
WEBSITE
ADVISING
DEPARTMENT/PROGRAM
LSA II: International and Comparative Studies
