Help, Empower, Affirm, and Love (H.E.A.L.)			
			
Purpose/Intent: 			
Help, Empower, Affirm, and Love (H.E.A.L.) is a compilation of resources aimed to help support the needs of people in different aspects of mental health and different walks of life. Each resource contains a hyperlink, short description of the service provided, the intended audience, and a phone number and/or email address (if applicable). Much effort has been put into making this document as comprehenive and accessible as possible. Though the spreadsheet includes an ample amount of resources, there are many resources out there that I may not be aware of. This is meant to be a living-document, a place where others can contribute resources they know of and think would be helpful for others. Knowledge is power, and as a collective, we can be unstoppable. If you'd like to suggest resources or tabs I may be missing, please fill out this form: https://forms.gle/NDS95BNCTShZcvTG9			
			
			
Advice on how to use the resource:			
If you are looking for a resource in a particular area (i.e. depression), click the hyperlink in the table of contents and you will be taken to the appropriate tab. You are also welcome to scroll through the tabs at your liking. Feel free to use the resources yourself, or to share them with your loved ones. If there's anything you feel may be missing, please fill out the form above.			
			
Table of Contents			
New Resources This Month			
Emergency/Helplines/Services			
Resources for Communities of Color			
Deaf/Hard of Hearing Accessible			
Abuse/Sexual Assault			
Anxiety/Stress			
Bullying			
COVID-19			
Depression/Sadness			
Eating/Body Image			
Gender/Sexual Identity			
Grief			
Isolation/Loneliness			
Relationships			
Self-Harm			
Substance Abuse			
Suicide			
General			
If you have any questions, comments, or concerns, feel free to contact JC Garcia at jordygar@umich.edu			
IMPORTANT: BLACK LIVES MATTER SUPPORT AND RESOURCES			
			
I want to take the time to recognize the troubling times we are currently in, and acknowledge that Black Lives Matter, not just today, or because of everything going on, but everyday. I realize not all of us are in a position to go out and protest, and want to support the Movement but are not sure how to support. This is not my area of expertise, but I want to provide resources for anyone who wants to get involved from people who are more knowledgeable.			
			
			
Black History Month Folder			credit: Charles Preston, thecharlesalexander@gmail.com
Black Mental Wellness			credit: @blackmentalwellness, Instagram
Community Resource Document			credit: La Casa, University of Michigan
Master List on How to End Systematic Racism			credit: @patiasfantasyworld, Instagram
NAACP			credit: NAACP
National Resource List			credit: @lovely_simone, Instagram
Support George Floyd and BLM			credit: @ambivalcnt, Twitter
Thread of Organizations to Donate to			credit: @sorrybythway, Twitter
Thread of Petitions to Sign			credit: @JISEOBSLUT, Twitter
Ways to Help			credit: @lumnayofficial, Twitter
YouTube Videos You Can Watch to Donate to BLM			credit: @killmytime, Twitter
